# Deep_Air
Final project ESADE MSc Business Analytics.


Air pollution is a structural problem that sometimes can be episodic. Today there are several ways to measure air pollution. It can be described through air stations - points with high accuracy - or through satellite sense - e.g., S5p/tropomi with 5 km resolution. It can be described through simulations or even Land Use Regressions models (LURs) - e.g., Lobelia/isglobal.
However, all these methods have drawbacks:
• Air stations are zonal indicators - i.e., not very detailed.
• Satellite sensing has low resolutions.
• Simulations are too complex and require much computational power.
• LURs do not describe urban complexity, which is a fundamental feature.

Together with 300,000 km/s, a tech-urban start-up located in Barcelona, Davide, and Peter - from now on, we - considered a new scenario to test. As air pollution is a problem of mobility generated by land-use composition, we have tried to predict it using measurements from existing air stations and several features, including but not limited to: urban density, income data, land use composition, building density, dwelling information, and population density and composition.
This project aims to predict the NO2 levels of Spain - the harmful human particles - corner by corner, using correlation matrices, random forest regression trees, graph representations, and spatial lagged features used applied to Moran's I. The spatial lag was introduced to use the strength of data that we possess, namely the geographical information, in the best possible way. By doing so, we were able to introduce 'spatiality' into our machine learning vocabulary. We could extract robust information that would usually be lost in traditional machine learning techniques such as random forests or XGBoost. To ensure we would only use spatial lagged features that possessed powerful information, we looked at the so-called Moran's I coefficient. This coefficient is a measure for spatial autocorrelation, which in simple terms, is a representation of how good it is possible to predict a feature with the knowledge of the value of the same feature in geographically neighboring areas.
In the future, we will create a Graph Neural Network that will be used to evaluate the impact of potential transportation policies on the NO2 levels. The graph nodes will consist of our dataset's different locations, each represented by a single row of the final dataset. The edges will represent the number of people traveling by a vehicle from one location to another in November 2019, a representative month. For instance, from 'Rojales' to 'Montesinos, Los y Algorfa' (two different nodes-locations in our dataset), 241 people traveled in November 2019. The goal here is to see what happens to the network if specific nodes are taken out. In other words, since most of NO2 is emitted by vehicles, what happens if we limit movements from specific locations?
As an ultimate goal, together with 300000 km/s, we plan to re-calibrate the model using daily data from the measurement stations or little tubes from 4sfera. This experiment can be even scaled using data from OSM (open street maps) to replicate the predictions in other cities outside Spain.
